The Hypertext Transfer Protocol is an application protocol for distributed, 
collaborative, hypermedia information systems that allows users to communicate data on the World Wide Web. In other words,
Communication between clients and servers is done by requests and responses:

A client (a browser) sends an HTTP request to the web
An web server receives the request
The server runs an application to process the request
The server returns an HTTP response (output) to the browser
The client (the browser) receives the response.


HTTP was invented alongside HTML to create the first interactive, text-based web browser: the original World Wide Web. 
Today, the protocol remains one of the primary means of using the Internet.

As a request-response protocol, HTTP gives users a way to interact with web resources such as HTML files by transmitting hypertext messages between clients and servers. 
HTTP clients generally use Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connections to communicate with servers.

HTTP utilizes specific request methods in order to perform various tasks:

GET requests a specific resource in its entirety
HEAD requests a specific resource without the body content
POST adds content, messages, or data to a new page under an existing web resource
PUT directly modifies an existing web resource or creates a new URI if need be
DELETE gets rid of a specified resource
TRACE shows users any changes or additions made to a web resource
OPTIONS shows users which HTTP methods are available for a specific URL
CONNECT converts the request connection to a transparent TCP/IP tunnel
PATCH partially modifies a web resource
All HTTP servers use the GET and HEAD methods, but not all support the rest of these request methods.


The HTTP Request Circle
A typical HTTP request / response circle:

The browser requests an HTML page. The server returns an HTML file.
The browser requests a style sheet. The server returns a CSS file.
The browser requests an JPG image. The server returns a JPG file.
The browser requests JavaScript code. The server returns a JS file
The browser requests data. The server returns data (in XML or JSON).

XHR - XML Http Request
All browsers have a built-in XMLHttpRequest Object (XHR).

XHR is a JavaScript object that is used to transfer data between a web browser and a web server.

XHR is often used to request and recieve data for the purpose of modifying a web page.

Despite the XML and Http in the name, XHR is used with other protocols than HTTP, 
and the data can be of many different types like HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, and plain text.

The XHR Object is a Web Developers Dream, because you can:

Update a web page without reloading the page
Request data from a server - after the page has loaded
Receive data from a server - after the page has loaded
Send data to a server - in the background

